Installation Notes
*******************

Installation Notes for:
=======================
Adobe Acrobat(TM) Reader v2.0.1 for Macintosh 
==============================================

Contents: 

 o What's New in Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 for Macintosh 
 o Should I Use Acrobat Reader 2.0r3 or 2.0.1? 
 o Before Installation 
 o System Requirements 
 o Installation Instructions 
 o ATM and Fonts 
 o How much memory to give Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0.1 
 o Troubleshooting 
 o List of Files Installed 

What's New in Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 for Macintosh 
=================================================

Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 now runs when QuickDraw GX is enabled.
Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 now includes full ATM(TM) 3.8.2. 

Should I Use Acrobat Reader 2.0r3 or 2.0.1? 
============================================

There are no feature differences between Acrobat Reader 2.0r3 and
Acrobat Reader 2.0.1. You should choose to use the version
appropriate to your system configuration. If you are
redistributing the Reader, you should consider the system
configurations of your intended audience. 

 o If your system is a 68XXX-based Macintosh without QuickDraw GX,
   use Acrobat Reader 2.0r3. Acrobat Reader 2.0r3 has smaller disk
   and memory requirements, but supports fewer platform
   configurations. 
 o If your system is a Power Macintosh or you have QuickDraw GX
   enabled, use Acrobat Reader 2.0.1. Acrobat Reader 2.0.1
   supports more systems, but has greater disk and memory
   requirements. 

Acrobat Reader 2.0r3 includes ATM LE. To enable Acrobat Reader
2.0r3 and ATM LE to fit on a single floppy, ATM LE does not
include support for QuickDraw GX, Kanji, or 68000-based
Macintoshes, and does not have native Power Macintosh code for
improved performance on Power Macintoshes like the full version of
ATM which is included with Acrobat Reader 2.0.1. The Acrobat
Reader 2.0r3 application is not compatible with QuickDraw GX. 

Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 supports QuickDraw GX and includes full
ATM(TM) 3.8.2. 

Before Installation
===================

The installation process is controlled by the Acrobat Installer
application. This installation will create a folder named "Adobe
Acrobat 2.0" at the root level on the selected hard disk and
install the new "Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0.1" application and support
files. 

If you already have a folder named "Adobe Acrobat 2.0" at the root
level on the selected hard disk, the installation will remove the
outdated "Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0" application in the "Adobe
Acrobat 2.0" folder and replace it with the updated "Acrobat(TM)
Reader 2.0.1" application and support files. 

Note: If you would like the installation to update your existing
Acrobat Reader 2.0 installation but it is not currently in a
folder named "Adobe Acrobat 2.0" at the root level of your disk,
do the following: 

1. Double click on the hard disk icon to open a window to the root
   level of your disk. 
2. Drag your current folder containing the Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0
   application into the window you opened in (1) above. 
3. Rename the folder you just moved in (2) to "Adobe Acrobat 2.0"
   if it does not already have this name. 
4. Run the installation following the instructions below. 

The Installer will quit any running applications (after prompting
you first). 

System Requirements
===================

 o Macintosh computer with 68020 (Macintosh II series) or greater
   processor 
 o MacOS 7.0 or greater 
 o 2 MB application RAM 
 o 4 MB hard disk space 
 o FDHD floppy disk drive or CD-ROM player if installing from
   physical media 
 o If QuickDraw GX is enabled, Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 requires
   desktop printing be turned on to print 
 o Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 does not support Kanji or 68000-based
   Macintoshes 

Installation instructions
=========================

To Install Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0.1: 

 o Double-click on the "AcroRead.mac" icon and then follow the
   instructions. 
 o See "How Does The Installer Handle Adobe Type Manager (ATM) and
   Fonts?" below for information on ATM and font issues. 
 o See "How much memory to give Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0.1?" for
   information on optimizing performance. 
 o See the "List of files installed" below for a complete listing
   of the files installed. 

How Does The Installer Handle Adobe Type Manager (ATM) and Fonts?
================================================================

If ATM 3.8.1 or earlier is installed on your computer, the Acrobat
Reader 2.0.1 installer will update it with ATM 3.8.2. 

If you do not have a version of ATM installed on your computer and
you do not have QuickDraw GX enabled, the Acrobat Reader 2.0.1
installer places a copy of ATM 3.8.2 in the Adobe Acrobat 2.0 /
Fonts folder. This private copy of ATM is recognized and used only
by Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 and uses memory only when Acrobat Reader
is running. 

If TrueType versions of Times, Helvetica, Courier, Symbol, or Zapf
Dingbats are installed on your system, they are not replaced nor
moved. If you are using Type 1 versions of these fonts, updated
versions of the Type 1 fonts Times, Helvetica, Courier, Symbol,
and Zapf Dingbats will be installed in the appropriate location
for your version of System 7. 

If you have QuickDraw GX installed and enabled, the Acrobat
Exchange 2.0.1 installer will install ATM 3.8.2 in the System's
Control Panels folder. It is not possible to use the private
version of ATM with QuickDraw GX. 

Depending on whether QuickDraw GX is enabled at the time of
installation, different versions of the Adobe Acrobat substitution
fonts Adobe Sans MM and Adobe Serif MM (and perhaps other Type 1
fonts) are installed. Later, if QuickDraw GX is either enabled or
disabled, you will need to re-install Acrobat Reader 2.0.1. 

If you installed System 7.5 and QuickDraw GX after installing
Acrobat Reader 2.0.1, you will need to reinstall Acrobat Reader
2.0.1. The QuickDraw GX 1.0 installer replaces ATM 3.8.2 with ATM
GX (ATM 3.7), which is not compatible with Acrobat Reader 2.0.1;
the QuickDraw GX 1.1 installer includes ATM 3.8.2, so this is not
an issue. 

How much memory to give Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0.1?
=================================================

Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0, as it is pre-configured, is set to require
at least 2048K bytes of memory and to prefer 3100K bytes. To
change this, quit the Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0.1 application if it
is running and select its icon using the Finder. Then select "Get
Info" from the File menu. In the Memory Requirements section of
the dialog, the "factory" default for Minimum size is set to 2048K
and should not be changed. The Preferred memory size is 3100K and
may be reduced as described below. 

If you are using ATM 3.8.2 in the Adobe Acrobat 2.0 / Fonts
folder, ATM allocates approximately 1000K of RAM from the Acrobat
Reader 2.0.1 partition if there is sufficient space. If there is
not sufficient space, ATM attempts to allocate RAM from your
System (MultiFinder) memory (except on Power Macintosh
configurations, which always allocate the required RAM from the
Acrobat Reader partition. 

If you are using ATM in the System / Control Panels folder you can
reduce the Preferred size by 1000K for 680x0 processors (non-Power
Macintosh processors). 

Like any Macintosh program, increasing the memory size will
benefit performance and increase the number and size of documents
you may have open at once. Setting the "Preferred size" to 4000 (K
bytes) should be sufficient for all but the most complex
documents. 

Troubleshooting 
================

If you experience problems, consider the following: 

 o If you downloaded the Reader from an online service or internet
   site, check that the file transferred properly. Adobe's World
   Wide Web site at http://www.adobe.com/ will list the correct
   size of the binhexed version of the Macintosh 2.0.1 Reader.
   Corrupted archives have been reported to issue a message
   "requires 68020 or greater processor to run" on Macintosh IIx
   systems. 
 o Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 installs substitution fonts appropriate to
   your system configuration at the time of installation. Later,
   if you either enable or disable QuickDraw GX, you will need to
   reinstall Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 to ensure that the correct
   version of the fonts required by Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 are
   installed in their proper locations. 
 o If you installed System 7.5 and QuickDraw GX *after* installing
   Acrobat Reader 2.0.1, you must reinstall Acrobat Reader 2.0.1.
   The QuickDraw GX installer replaces ATM 3.8.2 with ATM GX (ATM
   3.7), which is not compatible with Acrobat Reader 2.0.1. [The
   QuickDraw GX 1.1 installer includes ATM 3.8.2, so this is not
   an issue.] 
 o If QuickDraw GX is enabled, Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 requires
   desktop printing be turned on to print. Do not use the
   QuickDraw GX Helper to turn off desktop printing. 
 o See the QuickDraw GX Read Me for more details on QuickDraw GX
   operation and compatibility. 
 o Font Not Found - A font not found error may indicate that ATM
   did not have enough memory to create a substitute font.
   Increase the size of the ATM Font Cache from the ATM Control
   Panel. 
 o For best printing results, we recommend you use PSPrinter 8.2.1
   (or later) driver from Adobe. PSPrinter 8.2.1 is not included
   with Acrobat Reader. Contact Adobe at 1-800-521-1976 for
   information on purchasing printer drivers. 
 o If you are using the private copy of ATM in the Adobe Acrobat
   2.0 Fonts folder (i.e. you do not have ATM installed in your
   System's Control Panels folder) background printing is disabled
   in the PSPrinter driver. 
 o If you are printing to a PostScript Level 2 device using the
   Adobe PSPrinter 8.X or Apple LaserWriter 8 printer drivers, you
   need to update the Printer Info after selecting the printer
   from the Chooser in order for the printer driver to recognize
   the printer supports PostScript Level 2. If this is not done,
   Acrobat Reader will not send PostScript Level 2 information to
   the printer. During setup, make sure to select the specific
   PostScript Printer Description (PPD) file for your particular
   printer, do not selecet the "Generic" PPD if at all possible. 
 o Please note that the Acrobat Reader 2.0.1 does not support
   Kanji or 68000-based Macintoshes. 
 o Current product information for Acrobat is located on Adobe's
   World Wide Web Site at http://www.adobe.com/ 

List of files installed 
========================

The following files are installed by the Acrobat Reader 2.0.1
Installer: 

Adobe Acrobat 2.0 [folder]
     Acrobat(TM) Reader 2.0.1
     ReadMe-Reader
     Fonts [folder]
          ~ATM(TM) (Only if ATM was not previously installed in the System.)
     Help [folder]
          Help-Reader.pdf

System Folder [folder]
           ATM Font Database
     Control Panels [folder]
          ~ATM(TM) (If ATM was previously installed or QuickDraw GX is enabled)

