OS/2 Gopher Client
 
Once, long ago, your author had a free weekend and wrote the first OS/2 
Gopher client. It was a one page REXX program and a one page C support 
routine (needed because direct REXX access to TCP/IP was not available 
at the time). This still resides in the "obsolete" directories of some 
servers and should be avoided at all costs. 

The current OS/2 Gophers are written by IBM and NetSuite. The IBM 
Gopher was produced by David Singer at the IBM Almaden Research 
facility. It is available from index.almaden.ibm.com which is also an 
important IBM Gopher server. 

The OS/2 Gopher also produces cascading menus, at least when you jump 
from one server to another. However, they are not contained within an 
application window but rather exist as peers on the OS/2 desktop screen.
Each menu and each selection is managed as a separate task. It is 
possible to click on a menu item that represents a binary file, fill in 
the directory and name to which it is to be downloaded, and while it is 
being transferred select a second and third file and start them going 
as well. However, the IBM OS/2 Gopher client does not understand 
Gopher+ protocol. 

As you can see from the example menu, the OS/2 Gopher Client (1.61) can 
be obtained from the Almaden server using Gopher protocol. It is also 
distributed by IBM on the DEVCON CD, and is available by ftp from 
software.watson.ibm.com in /pub/os2/ews. It is packaged in with the 
Warp releases of OS/2.All the Windows Gopher clients work under OS/2. 
There is only one other native OS/2 Gopher package from NetSuite. It 
offers about the same function as the IBM Gopher, isn't any better 
packaged, and comes with a shareware registration fee. There is no 
particular reason to prefer it to the IBM freeware. 

