README FILE FROM THE DEVELOPER OF BLUESKIES
===========================================


Readme file for Blue Skies 1.0 beta 3a

Following you will find the directions for installing this version of 
Blue Skies. 

0.  You must have WinSock installed and operational on your computer.
Blue Skies will not install if WinSock is not already installed on your
computer. 

If you need more information on WinSock, please contact your Internet
service provider.  They should be well equipped to help you install and
trouble shoot if necessary. 

1.  Go to your system's temp directory (often this is c:\windows\temp or
c:\temp; look at the the DOS environment variable TEMP or TMP), or
create a temporary directory, or even use a blank diskette.  It's a good
idea to make sure the directory or diskette is empty. 

2.  After you have changed directories or changed drives to the
diskette, execute the program bs1b3a.exe.  This unpacks into over a
dozen files. 

3.  Start Windows, or Windows for Workgroups, if you haven't already.
If you're using NT see the notes below. 

From the Program Manager, or the Windows File Manager, execute the setup.exe.

If you're using File Manager, it's easy to just double click on setup.exe.

If you're using Program Manager, it's easy to select File/Run and type
a:setup, if the program is on a diskette, or type in the path to the
setup program.  Then hit the Enter key or click on the OK button. 

4.  The only choice you will need to make now is where to install Blue
Skies.  If you already have a directory where you install network
applications (like c:\internet or c:\netapps) then enter the appropriate
path for the Blue Skies directory when you are asked. 

5.  Blue Skies will now be installed.  If you haven't run Blue Skies
before now, or another application that uses the Microsoft WinG graphics
library, you will be asked to reboot your computer.  Be sure to exit the
other applications (particularly any MSDOS sessions) and reboot. 

6.  If you are not using NT, then when you start Blue Skies, you will be
treated to several minutes of bouncing graphics. WinG is timing various
operations on your monitor, for best performance.  Trust me, this only
happens once!  Well, OK, it will happen again if you change the display
settings, but WinG is good about keeping track of what it's already
tested. 

7.  Note to NT users -- experience seems to show that you will have best
results if you select "Shutdown and restart" from the Shutdown menu.
So, don't bother to reboot from Blue Skies; it doesn't seem to be
enough. 

Also, long filename users, I strongly recommend using a "short" filename
for the Blue Skies directory, even if Blue Skies is installed on an NTFS
drive.  For now. 

********

Please direct your questions and comments to blueskies@umich.edu.  Be
sure to ask to be placed on the notification list for updates.  We look
forward to your comments! 

Blue Skies is a 'work in progress'; it is actively being developed but
it's not yet a complete implementation of the Interactive Image Format
specification.  Just the same, we show it publicly and it is quite
stable.  We welcome your suggestions. 

If you are able to make Blue Skies "crash", please provide us with a Dr.
Watson log (or something similar) and instructions on how to reproduce
the error. 

Thanks,
Dave Brooks
author of the Windows Blue Skies, and WSGopher
